# Integration of a Blazor frontend with an ASP.NET Web API using JWT in .NET 10

This repository follows the YouTube series [Web API Authentication and Authorization](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLQB-TSatJvw6xVARAVsMfwphotktIqIWb) by CodingTutorials, excluding the Angular videos. The solution consists of two projects: a Web API and a Blazor WebAssembly standalone project.

The Web API uses Entity Framework with a SQL Server database and `Microsoft.AspNetCore.Identity` for authentication. It logs information at every endpoint and whenever a `JwtBearerEvent` is fired to make the application flow easier to trace. When a user authenticates, the API returns the JWT and refresh token in the response body.

The frontend is a WebAssembly standalone project. The app has three pages: one for login, one to get all book reviews, and one to get the summary of reviews. Registration was not implemented here, so to test you need to call the API's register endpoint with a third-party tool like Bruno or Scalar.

If a user who is not logged in tries to access secure pages, they will be redirected to the login page.

Both tokens are stored in session storage, and the access token (JWT) is cached in the `AuthenticationService` class. Inserting the access token into requests to the API and refreshing it is handled by the `AuthenticationHandler`.

## How to start

You could run this project by running each project separatedly in your prefer editor or just the command line, and you could also run it using Docker Compose.

These are the settings shared by both ways to run the solution, that you need to set

In appsettings.json or its related development file:

- ConnectionStrings:DefaultConnection
- Jwt:Secret
- Jwt:SecondsToExpire
- RefreshToken:SecondsToExpire

With this you should be able to run the projects by its own. But if you want to use docker set this environment variable:

- DB_PASSWORD

This is used by the health checks of the db service, to ensure the start up order of the services. After done that run this command:

```
docker compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.override.yml up
```

When all the services are ready, access these address: http://localhost:5000 and register a user. Then go to http://localhost:8080 to interact with the application. You could also make other requests to the API by using the first address shown or use Bruno and the collection of requests included in the solution.

NOTE: For simplicity https was not setup for the Docker Compose use.

## Endpoints

### AuthenticationController

- `api/authentication/register` - public POST endpoint. Registers a new user.
- `api/authentication/login` - public POST endpoint. Authenticates the user. Returns the JWT, the JWT expiration, and the refresh token in the response body as JSON.
- `api/authentication/refresh` - public POST endpoint. It receives a JWT and a refresh token. It validates all data in the JWT except the expiration time and checks the refresh token; if valid, it issues new tokens.
- `api/authentication/revoke` - secure DELETE endpoint. Deletes the refresh token saved in the database for the user.

### BookReviewsController

- `api/bookreviews` - secure GET endpoint. Gets all the reviews.
- `api/bookreviews/[id]` - secure GET endpoint. Gets the review with the specified id if found.
- `api/bookreviews/summary` - secure GET endpoint. Gets a summary of all titles with their average review score.
- `api/bookreviews` - secure POST endpoint. Creates a new review.
- `api/bookreviews` - secure PUT endpoint. Updates a review.
- `api/bookreviews` - secure DELETE endpoint. Deletes a review.

## How to make requests to the API

Install [Bruno](https://www.usebruno.com/downloads) and import the Bruno collection located in the repository root. You can also use the [Bruno extension for VS Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=bruno-api-client.bruno) to run requests directly in VS Code.

Alternatively, use Scalar: run the API project and visit the URL shown in the console. That page displays the Scalar main page with the API information generated by the OpenAPI NuGet package.

## Insertion of the JWT in the HTTP requests of the frontend

Before sending each request, the `AuthenticationHandler` adds the Authorization header if both of the following conditions are met:

1. A JWT is stored in session storage in the browser.
2. The base URL of the request destination matches the API base URL.

## Refresh flow in the frontend

If a request to the API returns 401 (Unauthorized), a request is made to the refresh endpoint. If that response is 200 (OK), the original request is retried with the new JWT. If the refresh response is 403 (Forbidden), the user is logged out.
